---
layout: post
title: Getting started with Salt Stack
category: posts
---

Setup
=====

The purpose of this evaluate and record salt stack for my current workflow. Right now we use chef/vagrant/rackspace for setting up both local and devlopment servers.

Getting started was easy, I simply visited the [Ubuntu Installation](http://docs.saltstack.com/topics/installation/ubuntu.html) guide and installed on both a master and minion host. Initially I will just set up one minion and attempt to get a single project loaded on the server the salt way.

On the client I type ```salt-minion -l debug``` because I'd like to see whats going on while I'm developing things. On the server its a matter of accepting the keys using ```salt-key -A```

A quick ```salt '*' test.ping``` reveals that my client has successfully connected. So far the syntax for running salt commands makes sense and getting started seems quite easy.


Adding Users
============

Next up, getting users added to the system. Up until this point I've been using root logins which is bad. My first step with any new system is to load a user that accepts ssh keys and has sudo access.

In ```/srv/salt/users.sls``` I add the following:

    zsh:
     pkg.installed
     
    rclark:
     user.present:
      - shell: /bin/zsh

Then run ```salt '*' state.sls users``` to keep the state up to date and run ```salt '*' user.list_users``` to verify that the user was added. Now all I need to do is add my public ssh key for passwordless auth. Again in users.sls I add the following to the bottom

    AAAA**redacted**xaQ==:
     ssh_auth:
      - present
      - user: rclark
      - enc: ssh-rsa
      
I can now verify that I'm able to login without a password. Ideally this user would be able to run commands as sudo so lets create the file ```/srv/salt/sudoers``` for that.

    Defaults        env_reset
    Defaults        secure_path="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin"
    root    ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL
    %admin ALL=(ALL) ALL
    %sudo   ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL
    rclark ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL
    
This file is created from /etc/sudoers with my user added to the bottom. I'll need to add one more section to the bottom of users.sls.

    /etc/sudoers:
     file.managed:
      - user: root
      - group: root
      - mode: 0440
      - source: salt://sudoers
      
Run ```salt '*' state.sls users``` one last time to get sudo access.


Base Configuration
==================

Now that basic security is out of the way its time to make myself comfortable in my new home. To do this I'll clone my dotfiles directory to /srv/salt/dotfiles. My repository is located at https://github.com/lojack/dotfiles.git but you can use whatever dotfiles you prefer. In /srv/salt/dotfiles.sls I add the following to load my vim config:


    vim:
     pkg.installed

    /home/rclark/.vimrc:
     file.managed:
      - source: salt://dotfiles/.vimrc
      - mode: 644
      - user: rclark
      - group: rclark

    /home/rclark/.vim:
     file.recurse:
      - source: salt://dotfiles/.vim
      - include_empty: True
      - user: rclark
      - group: rclark

If you have any other dotfiles you can add them similarily to this file.
